= Devise MailChimp

Devise MailChimp adds a MailChimp option to {devise}[https://github.com/plataformatec/devise] that easily enables users
to join your mailing list when they create an account.

{Delayed Job}[https://github.com/collectiveidea/delayed_job] is used automatically if your project uses it, and the
mapping between list names and list ids is cached automatically.

== Getting started

In your Gemfile, add devise_mailchimp after devise:

  gem "devise"
  gem "devise_mailchimp"  # Last officially released gem

In your User model, add :mailchimp to the devise call and make :join_mailing_list accessible:

  devise :database_authenticatable, ..., :mailchimp
  attr_accessible :join_mailing_list

In your devise initializer (config/initializers/devise.rb), set your API key and mailing list name:

  Devise.mailchimp_api_key = 'your_api_key'
  Devise.mailing_list_name = 'List Name'
  Devise.double_opt_in = false  
  Devise.send_welcome_email = false  

If you are using the default Devise registration views, the Join Mailing List checkbox is added automatically, if not,
either include the form partial in your new registration form:

  <%= render :partial => "devise/shared/mailchimp/form", :locals => {:form => f} %>

Or manually add a "Join Mailing List" checkbox to your new registration form:

  <%= form.check_box :join_mailing_list %>

If you are using Simple Form, you can use:

  <%= f.input :join_mailing_list, :as => :boolean %>

== Configuration

Create an initializer, and set your MailChimp API key.  To generate a new API key, go to the account tab in your
MailChimp account and select API Keys & Authorized Apps, then add a key.

  Devise.mailchimp_api_key = 'your_api_key'

Create a mailing list, and set the mailing list name in the initializer.  To create a MailChimp list, from your account
go to the Lists tab, then hit create list.

  Devise.mailing_list_name = 'List Name'

Add options from the {MailChimp API Docs}[http://apidocs.mailchimp.com/api/1.3/] using the following code in user.rb model:

  def mailchimp_list_subscribe_options
    {'FNAME' => self.first_name, 'LNAME' => self.last_name, 'GROUPINGS'=>'Signed Up'}
  end

For all the configuration settings, take a look at the {model documenation}[http://rubydoc.info/github/jcnnghm/devise_mailchimp/master/Devise/Models/Mailchimp#].

== Documentation

Full documentation is available at {rdoc.info}[http://rdoc.info/github/jcnnghm/devise_mailchimp/master/frames].

== Demo Application

A demo application is available at {github}[https://github.com/jcnnghm/devise_mailchimp_demo].

== Example Usage

Users will join the default mailing list if join_mailing_list is set to true when the user is created.  To manually add
a user:

  User.find(1).add_to_mailchimp_list('Site Administrators List')

To manually remove a user:

  User.find(1).remove_from_mailchimp_list('Site Administrators List')

NOTE:  You MUST have the users permission to add them to a mailing list.

== Customization

To have the user join more than one list, or to override the lists that the user will join, override
mailchimp_lists_to_join in your model.  Your method should return a single list, or an array of lists.

  def mailchimp_lists_to_join
    lists = ["Site Users List"]
    lists << "Site Admins List" if admin?
    return lists
  end

If all users will join the same list or lists, just set the mailing_list_name configuration option.

== Contributions

Please help this software improve by submitting pull requests, preferably with tests.

View our {contributors}[https://github.com/jcnnghm/devise_mailchimp/contributors].

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 {Justin Cunningham}[http://littlebitofcode.com]. See MIT_LICENSE for details.